hi welcome to another episode of coffee
break with Pam I know many of you have
started traveling again which is great I
love seeing beautiful travel photos from
my friends on Facebook and Instagram and
I hope this
summer take you to visit some of peoples
and places you w able to do in the past
two years yay but for now sit tight
because I want to address a question
that B2B marketers tend to shy away from
and that is Right today we are going to
talk about self promotion that is
correct you need to promote
yourself if it's so important why so
many of us avoid it well a lot of us has
to do with the fact that we are not sure
what to do and how to do them correctly
and that's what I want to do today to
show you how so the question is why is
self promotion important and how can you
do it right by the end of this videos
you'll have solid ideas how to tackle
self-promotion in the right way you will
cover why is vital to promote yourself
number two how you can do it
authentically remember it's important to
be
yourself by the way my coffee break is
syndicated on LinkedIn Facebook YouTube
and Twitter live in the past several
weeks I have touched the following
topics how to structure your strategic
marketing plan and I also talk about the
differences between ideal customer
profile and a buyer Persona the last one
which is was actually well received some
of the simple ways to improve your
emotional intelligence I'm not a very
sentimental
person I actually have to learn how to
to actually beef up my EQ so I share my
journey in terms of what I did as part
of that video check it out if any of
these sounds interesting to you you can
watch them under coffee break with Pam
playlist on my YouTube channel Pam
dinner and most of them are 10 to 15
minutes long and you can skip it you
know as you go if you like the way I
explain things please give the video a
thumbs up subscribe to my channel and
comment below I love love love to hear
from you so now let's come back to
self-promotion
why for a long time I was not very good
at promoting myself because I was a firm
believer that you know as long as you do
a right work people will notice
you and uh your work should speak for
yourself and I can tell you that is
still true that has not changed
but that's not enough to stand out in
the modern workplace anymore here's the
main reason there are many projects are
simultaneously going on within the
company you may not be assigned to the
project that managements care about that
said your work is still critical to the
company's success you need to speak up
for yourself and celebrate your
wins and also if you are seeking a
promotion or raise you need to make sure
that you stay on top of the mind of your
manager and his or her peers so when
it's time to do a performance review and
when a bunch of the manager get together
they will remember you also they will
consider putting your name forward as a
potential candidate if you have given an
opportunities or proactively show them
what you have done in the past one year
it's your job I want to make that very
clear it's your job to make yourself
known no one else will do it for you so
you have to do it yourself okay so here
are some suggestions to do it
authentically number one lead a virtual
team to accomplish certain initiative
with your company by the way you don't
need to be a manager to lead say an
account a company why initiative a
campaign Etc showing the ability to lead
is great it puts you out there to work
with different team members and the
senior managers that's a fantastic way
to get noticed of course if you fail
that's also a fantastic way to get
noticed but you know what even you fail
people still will get a chance to know
what you can do and you really put
yourself out there to do you know the
good initiatives for the company I don't
think it's totally bad if it's feel
miserably I have done that multiple
times within my careers in the copit
world so again don't be shy if there's
opportunity for you to leave a virtual
team take
it number two present to senior staff of
your company always volunteer always
volunteer to make presentation in front
of management you know when I was
starting working in the coporate worlds
I always I never raised my hand you know
somebody will say oh for this project
all three of you can you know present
who wants to do it and I'm always the
one sitting very
quietly right there and never rais my
hand but I have friends and colleagues
always volunteer and say I'll do it and
uh you can tell that the first time they
probably bomb big time but over time
they got better right and that's what I
learned I started raising my hand guess
what the first time I went I
sucked oh my God I was bad I stuttered I
froze when people ask me question and uh
I was stiff like a stick I cannot move
my hand but you know what the more I
practiced the more I did it the better I
have become that's what you need to do
put yourself out there and find
opportunity to
practice and this comes another question
that many B2B marketers tend to ask me
and they say you know what Pam but the
first impression is so important I
cannot you know
fail yeah it is important the first
impression is important I'm not saying
it's not if that is very important to
you
or to your company maybe you can start
doing a presentation in a smaller team
and once you build enough confidence you
can actually be you knowe making
presentation to the senior staff that
can be a n way but what I have discover
is you know what the first impression is
important it's also the first
opportunity that you have to take on so
practice and also prepare yourself and
do the best you can a lot of time you
cannot care too much in terms of if
you're going to succeed or fail you're
just going to put your best step and
best effort forward all right and um and
do it if you fail fine do a little
postmortem trying to understand why you
didn't do that well and then do better
the next time there's always next time
and by the way over a period of time if
you do enough presentation to Senior
Management they will start getting
noticed that you are getting better over
time that happened to me as well like I
have done a quarterly updates you know
after four quarterly updates to the same
management staff they were like you know
what Pam this one's pretty good yay a
win after one
year so delivering presentation effess
to Senior Management is an essential
skills so start that early don't wait oh
by the way I wrote a blog post how to
deliver a virtual presentation to man
management
successfully so um you can see that on
my blog post or you can simply go to
Google and type virtual presentation
comma Pam dinner that blog post will
also show up and here is the link but
either way if you cannot find it let me
know I will send you the link
okay second I think this is
third give other credit if you work in
the team Express gratitude to others
contribution saying something like I
could not have done it this without blah
blah blah blah it's an indirect way of
touting your own work yet recognizing
everyone who is part of the team and
that's very very nice and very important
it's actually pretty
powerful the last one publish your work
I know many of you are subject matter
experts you know your stuff you do right
and in the past a lot of time you only
have like publica media Publications or
academic uh Academia journals and
articles that you can go to publish the
work but nowaday there are many many
channels and the formats to highlight
what you can do and what you know and
for example you can leverage your
company's blog or you can leverage your
company's YouTube channels so even your
own social media channel showcase what
you do and publish your know know get
yourself out
there another thing I want to make it
very clear when I say self-promotion I
don't mean me me me me me me me right
it's not like I did this I did that well
it's talking about the accomplishment in
the context of what you did focus on the
end results and also focus on what
others have done as well and at the same
time I don't mean inflating your own
work or promoting yourself at the
expense of other team members let's not
do
that but you know at the same time being
very honest and
transparent that other knows that others
know your good work in a way you feel
comfortable
sharing okay so find ways showcase your
knowledge talent and a strength to let
them know you are an asset and a Sol
contributors to your company all right
and don't be afraid to put yourself out
there I been doing that every day in the
past eight years trust me it was scary
initially and then over a period of time
I was like you know what let's just do
this step into a
spotlight show your
awesomeness because you deserve it all
right so I hope this is helpful and let
me know what you think and um comment
below and if you have other ways of
promoting yourself I would love to know
that don't forget to comment and
subscribe join me next time for a brand
new topic take care bye